# Git Remote X
This project provides a number of remote helpers for Git which support pushing data to various non-git remote repositories.
Git projects can be pushed to / pulled from the remote repository, just like to / from any other regular Git server.

The remote repository to be used can be configured like:

```
git remote add <remoteName> <url>
```

## git-remote-local
This helper uses a directory in the local file system as remote repository. It uses "local://" for the URL protocol.
The url specifies the path in the local file system where the objects will be stored.

### Installation
Git needs an executable in the path with the name "git-remote-local" in order to handle the "local://" protocol.
Such a script will be generated by the install script:

```
git-remote-local/install.sh
```

### Configuration
The remote repository for a git repo can be added like this:

```
git remote add origin local:///<baseDir>/<repoName.git>
```

The repo can then be uploaded using git push (with the setting the upstream at the first call):

```
git push --set-upstream origin master
```

## git-remote-s3
This helper stores the remote files in an AWS S3 bucket. It uses "s3://" for the URL protocol.
The url specifies the S3 bucket name and the path in the bucket where the objects will be stored.
The AWS credentials to access the bucket must be configured in the global git configuration for the repository.

### Installation
Git needs an executable in the path with the name "git-remote-s3" in order to handle the "s3://" protocol.
This will be generated by the install script:

```
git-remote-s3/install.sh
```

### Configuration
In order to access the S3 bucket, the AWS credentials must be configured. For an existing repository, this could be
done in the local configuration, however since this would not work for git clone it is better to use the global configuration:

```
git config --global s3.accesskeyid <awsAccessKeyId>
git config --global s3.secretkey <awsSecretKey>
git config --global s3.region <awsRegion>
git remote add origin s3://<bucketName>/<pathInBucket>/<repoName.git>
```


## git-remote-s3enc
This helper stores files in an AWS S3 bucket in an encrypted form. It uses "s3enc://" for the URL protocol.
The url specifies the S3 bucket name and the path in the bucket where the objects will be stored.
Anything that gets uploaded will be encrypted on client-side using AES256. This affects only the actual file contents.
Path names are SHA1 hash codes in git anyway, so they don't represent anything secret.
The encryption key and the AWS credentials to access the bucket must be configured in the global git configuration for the repository.

### Configuration

The configuration is similar to the S3 configuration without encryption, exception that there is an additional setting for the
encryption key.

```
git config --global s3enc.accesskeyid <awsAccessKeyId>
git config --global s3enc.secretkey <awsSecretKey>
git config --global s3enc.region <awsRegion>
git config --global s3enc.encryptionkey <encryptionKey>
git remote add origin s3enc://<bucketName>/<pathInBucket>/<repoName.git>
```

The encryption key is a Base64 encoded AES key (which is simply an array of 32 random bytes). To make it easier to generate such a key,
the git-remote-s3enc tool can be called with the -generateKey option:

```
git-remote-s3enc -generateKey
```

This produces a key that can be configured at git for encryption, for example like this:

```
git config --global s3.encryptionKey $(git-remote-s3enc -generateKey)
```

The key should also be stored at a safe place, for example in a password manager.


# Open Issues
* check process streaming
* support large files for s3
* support large files for s3enc
* describe installation (link)
* git build process?

# Disclaimer
This project is intended for educational purposes only. It should not be used for production use! Make sure you have a backup of your data
before using this tool!
